# Is More Always Better? The Effect of Monetary Incentives on Privacy Concerns and Their Impacts on Willingness to Participate in Passive Mobile Data Collection.

Passive mobile data collection (PMDC) via a smartphone app provides unprecedented opportunities and data for researchers to study interactions between various kinds of social behaviour. Given its advantages, researchers would like to increase the participation rate in PMDC studies. Although offering monetary incentive to participants is a common practice to entice participation in conventional self-reporting surveys, the effect of this practice is theoretically and empirically under-explored in the context of PMDC. This research answers to the theoretic and empirical research gap by first developing a theoretical framework explaining the causal mechanism between monetary incentive and participation in PMDC based on Nissenbaum (2019) Theory of Contextual Integrity. The theory argues the effect of monetary incentive on participation in PMDC is mediated by participants' level of privacy concern about PMDC. Subsequently, Keusch (2019) incentive experimental data collected from a German non-probability based panel is leveraged to empirically test the validity of theory. 1214 respondents above 18 who owned smartphones are surveyed with vignettes describing a hypothetical PMDC sponsored by researchers from University of Mannheim with different incentive schemes. Participants have to rate their willingness to participate in PMDC after reading the vignette varied by different monetary incentive amount. The results show that 1) Willingness to participate is not influenced by the amount of maximum incentive. 2) Privacy concern about PMDC is not influenced by the amount of maximum incentive. 3) Participants' privacy concern about PMDC is not a mediator between maximum incentive and willingness to participate. 4) Willingness to participate is influenced by participants' level of privacy concern for PMDC independently.        

Keywords: Passive Mobile Data Collection. Monetary Incentive. Privacy Concern. Data Security Concern. Contextual Integrity.
