# Is More Always better? The Effect of Monetary Incentives on Privacy Concerns and Their Impacts on Willingness to Participate in Passive Mobile Data Collection.

Passive Mobile Data Collection (PMDC) via an app has provided unprecedented opportunities and data for researchers to study interactions between various kinds of social behaviour. Given its advantages, researchers naturally would like to increase the participation rate in PMDC. Although offering monetary incentive to participants is a common practice to entice participation in conventional self-reported survey, the effect of this practice is theoretically and empirically under-explored in PMDC studies. This research answers directly to the research gaps by first developing a theoretical framework explaining the causal mechanism between monetary incentive and participation in PMDC based on Nissenbaum (2019) Theory of Contextual Integrity. The theory argues the effect of monetary incentive on participation in PMDC is mediated by participants level of privacy concern for PMDC. Subsequently,  Keusch (2019) incentive experimental data collected from a German non-probability based panel is leveraged to empirically test the validity of the theoretic framework. 1214 respondents above 18 and owned a smartphones are surveyed with vignettes describing a hypothetical PMDC conducted by researchers from University of Mannheim with different incentive schemes. Participants have to rate their willingness to participate in PMDC after reading the vignette that varied by different levels of monetary incentives. Willingness to participate is not influenced by the amount of monetary incentive participants are offered nor is the effect of monetary incentive mediated by participants' level of privacy concern. Instead, willingness to participate is influenced by privacy concern independently.This paper also raised some methodological and ethical caveats about the use of monetary incentive to entice participation in PMDC. 

Keywords: Passive Mobile Data Collection. Monetary Incentive. Privacy Concern. Data Security Concern. Contextual Integrity.
